# vosonSML 0.32.2

## Major Changes
- Re-wrote and modified `vosonSML` `twitter` functions to support major changes made in `rtweet` release version 1.0.2.
- Changed output message system. `vosonSML` functions are now silent by default. Using the `verbose` parameter will again print function output.
- Changed output messages to use the `message()` function instead of the `cat()` function by default. Setting the global option `option(voson.msg = "cat")` or using the helper function `SetOutputCat()` will again send function output to `cat()`.
- The `twitter` `AddText` and `AddUserData` functions now work with all `twitter` network types.
- `AddUserData` no longer has a lookup user option. The network passed through `AddUserData` now has an additional attribute named `missing_users` that lists the ids and names of users that did not have metadata embedded in the collected data. 

## Minor Changes
- Re-wrote `youtube` id extraction from url function to be more robust.
- Removed stand-alone `GetYoutubeVideoIDs` function. The `youtube` collect function parameter `videoIDs` will now accept video ids or video urls.
- `AddText` now has a `hashtags` parameter to add a list of tweet hashtags as a network attribute.

# vosonSML 0.31.1

## Bug Fixes
- Incorrectly ordered tweets by `status ID` to summarise collected tweet range. The `Min ID` and `Max ID` are not necessarily the earliest and latest tweet in the tweets collected and therefore not ideal for subsequent collections. Instead the two `Earliest Obs` and two `Latest Obs` tweets as returned by the `Twitter API` are now reported.

## Major Changes
- Added `enpoint` parameter to `Collect`, allowing `search` or `timeline` to be specified for a `twitter` data collection. If it is not specified the default is a twitter `search`.
- The `timeline` collection accepts a `users` vector of user names or ID's or a mixture of both, and will return up to 3,200 of each users most recent tweets.
- Minimum required version of R has changed from 3.6 to 4.1.

## Minor Changes
- Updated standard package documentation, added citation, code of conduct and README.Rmd.
- Replaced magrittr pipes with native pipe operators.

# vosonSML 0.30.6

## Minor Changes
- Updated standard package documentation, added citation and README.Rmd.

# vosonSML 0.30.5

## Major Changes
- Re-implemented `Create.actor.twitter` and `Create.activity.twitter` to use `dplyr` and `data.table` techniques consistent with other package network creation functions. Both functions are significantly faster for large collection dataframes.

## Minor Changes
- `Create.actor.twitter` includes two new parameters for `mentions`, `inclMentions` that will process and include `mentions` edges in the network and `inclRtMentions` that will process and include mentions found in retweets. The `inclMentions` parameter is set to `TRUE` by default and `inclRtMentions` set to `FALSE`. The `inclRtMentions` parameter is a subset of mentions, therefore for it to be set to `TRUE`, `inclMentions` must also be `TRUE`.
- Re-implemented and simplified the `Create.activity.twitter` network creation. Added `author_id` and `author_screen_name` to nodes to assist with labels or re-creating tweet URLs from data.
- Added `rmEdgeTypes` parameter to `Create.activity.twitter` and `Create.actor.twitter`. These accept a list of edge types that can be filtered out of the network during network creation.
- Removed label attributes from igraph graphs generated by the `Graph` function.
- Tidied up and renamed many of the utils functions. Removed unused functions.
- Added last observation tweet to minimum and maximum status ID values reported for twitter collections. Usually the last observation and `Min ID` will be the same, but sometimes the `Min ID` is outside of the expected collection range. The last observation is a more reliable tweet to use as the starting point for subsequent search collections.
- Cleaned up package imports, suggests and added some interactive package checks to reduce the number of required imports.

# vosonSML 0.30.0

## Major Changes
- Added a web crawler `Collect` method with hyperlink network creation. The `Create` function with `activity` type parameter creates a network where nodes are `web pages` and edges the `hyperlinks` linking them (extracted from `a href` HTML tags). The `actor` network has page or `site domains` as the nodes and again the `hyperlinks` from linking pages between domains.

# vosonSML 0.29.14

## Minor Changes
- Prepending instead of appeneding S3 class names to `Collect` dataframes to avoid `dplyr` issues.
- Removed `retryOnRateLimit` set to `FALSE` if rate limit cannot be determined.
- `ImportData` will now accept a file path or a dataframe.

## Bug Fixes
- S3 class names were being added to `Collect` dataframes after `writeToFile`. Should no longer be required to manually add class names or use `ImportData` to load RDS files to use previously saved data with `Create` functions.

# vosonSML 0.29.13

## Minor Changes
- Minor documentation updates to `Create.semantic.twitter`, `Create.twomode.twitter` and the `Intro-to-vosonSML` vignette:
    - Specified the `tidyr`, `tidytext` and `stopwords` package requirements in descriptions and examples
    - Updated references to `twomode` networks as `2-mode` where possible

# vosonSML 0.29.12

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed an issue with custom classes assigned to dataframes causing an `vctrs` error when using `dplyr` functions. The classes are no longer needed post-method routing so they are simply removed.
- Replaced an instance of the deprecated `dplyr::funs` function that was generating a warning.

## Minor Changes
- Minor documentation updates.

# vosonSML 0.29.11

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed a reddit collect `bind_rows` error on joining dataframes with different types for the structure column. Column type was being set to integer instead of character in cases when every thread comment have no replies or depth (except the OP).

# vosonSML 0.29.10

## Minor Changes
- Reimplemented the `Create.semantic.twitter` and `Create.twomode.twitter` functions using the `tidytext` package. They now better support tokenization of tweet text and allows a range of stopword lists and sources to be used from the `stopwords` package. The semantic network function requires the `tidytext` and `tidyr` packages to be installed before use.
- New parameters have been added to `Create.semantic.twitter`: 
    - Numbers and urls can be removed or included from the term list using `removeNumbers` and `removeUrls`, default value is `TRUE`.
    - The `assoc` parameter has been added to choose which node associations or ties to include in the network. The default value is `"limited"` and includes only ties between most frequently occurring hashtags and terms in tweets. A value of `full` will also include ties between most frequently occurring hashtags and hashtags, and terms with terms creating a more densely connected network.
    - Parameters to specify `stopwords` language e.g `stopwordsLang = "en"` and source e.g `stopwordsSrc = "smart"` have been added. These correspond to the `language` and `source` parameters of the `tidytext::get_stopwords` function. The `stopwords` default value is `TRUE`.
- The network produced by the `Create.twomode.twitter` function is weighted by default but can be disabled by setting the new `weighted` parameter to `FALSE`.
- Renamed the `replies_from_text` parameter to `repliesFromText` and `at_replies_only` to `atRepliesOnly` in the `AddText.actor.youtube` function for consistency.
- Improved the usage examples in the README file.
- Removed `tm` package dependency.

# vosonSML 0.29.9

## Minor Changes
- Updated `Introduction to vosonSML` vignette `Merging Collected Data` examples.
- Added new hex sticker to package documentation.

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed a logic problem in `Collect.youtube` that was causing no video comments to be collected if there were no reply comments for any of the videos first `maxComments` number of top level comments. For example, if `maxComments` is set to 100 and the first 100 comments made to a video had no replies then no results would be returned.

# vosonSML 0.29.8

## Bug Fixes
- A recent intermittent problem with the Twitter API caused an issue with the `rtweet::rate_limit` function that resulted in an error when using the rtweet `retryonratelimit` search parameter. The `rate_limit` function was being called by `vosonSML` to check the twitter rate limit regardless of whether the search parameter was set or not, and so was failing `Collect` with an error. A fix was made so that `vosonSML` checks if `rtweet::rate_limit` succeeds, and if not automatically sets `retryonratelimit` to `FALSE` so that a twitter `Collect` can still be performed without error should this problem occur again.

## Minor Changes
- Added some links to the `pkgdown` site navbar.

# vosonSML 0.29.7

## Minor Changes
- Added some guidance for merging collected data to the `Introduction to vosonSML` vignette. 

# vosonSML 0.29.6

## Minor Changes
- Added `Introduction to vosonSML` vignette to the package.
- Minor changes and input checks added to `ImportData`.
- Added some unit testing for `Authenticate` and `ImportData`.

# vosonSML 0.29.5

## Minor Changes
- Reddit JSON is now retrieved using `jsonlite::fromJSON`.
- Reddit 'Continue' threads are now followed with additional thread requests. Many more comments are now collected for threads with large diameters or breadth. Continue threads also have a Reddit limit of 500 comments per thread request.
- Reddit comment ID's and timestamps are now extracted.
- Removed the `tictoc` package from dependency imports to suggested packages.
- Added some checks for whether the `rtweet` package is installed.
- Removed the `RedditExtractoR` package from imports.
- HTML decoded tweet text during network creation to replace '&', '<', and '>' HTML codes.
- Added node type attribute to `twomode` networks.

# vosonSML 0.29.4

## Minor Changes
- Renamed `bimodal` networks to `twomode`.

# vosonSML 0.29.3

## Minor Changes
- Added output messages from supplemental functions such as `AddText()` and `Graph()`. Also improved
  consistency of output messages from `Collect` and `Create` functions.

## Bug Fixes
- Added a fix `reddit` gsub locale error https://github.com/vosonlab/vosonSML/issues/21.
- Changed `bimodal` network hashtags to lowercase as filter terms when entered are converted to
  lowercase.
- Fixed errors thrown when removing terms from `bimodal` and `semantic` networks.
- Removed a duplicate `GetVideoData()` function call in `AddVideoData`.
- Fixed data type errors in `AddText` functions related to strict typing by `dplyr::if_else` function.

# vosonSML 0.29.2

## Minor Changes
- A feature was added to the youtube actor `AddText` function to redirect edges towards actors based
  on the presence of a `screen name` or `@screen name` that may be found at the beginning of
  a reply comment. Typically reply comments are directed towards a top-level comment, this
  instead captures when reply comments are directed to other commenters in the thread.

# vosonSML 0.29.1

## Minor Changes
- Changed youtube `actor` network identifiers to be their unique `Channel ID` instead of their
  `screen names`.
- Created the `AddVideoData` function to add collected video data to the youtube `actor` network. The
  main purpose of this function is to replace video identifiers with the `Channel ID` of the video
  publisher (actor) instead. To get the `Channel ID` of video publishers an additional API lookup for
  the videos in the network is required. Additional columns such as video `Title`, `Description` and
  `Published` time are also added to the network `$edges` dataframe as well as returned in their own
  dataframe called `$videos`.

# vosonSML 0.29.0

## Major Changes
- Created the `AddText` function to add collected text data to networks. This feature applies
  to `activity` and `actor` networks and will typically add a node attribute to activity networks
  and an edge attribute to actor networks. For example, this function will add the column
  `vosonTxt_tweets` containing tweet text to `$nodes` if passed an activity network, and to
  `$edges` if passed an actor network.
- Generation of `igraph` graph objects and subsequent writing to file has been removed from the
  `Create` function and placed in a new function `Graph`. This change abstracts the graph creation
  and makes it optional, but also allows supplemental network steps such as `AddText` to be
  performed prior to creating the final igraph object.

## Minor Changes
- Removed `writeToFile` parameter from `Create` functions and added it to `Graph`.
- Removed `weightEdges`, `textData` and `cleanText` parameters from `Create.actor.reddit`.
  `cleanText` is now a parameter of `AddText.activity.reddit` and `AddText.actor.reddit`.
- Replaced `AddTwitterUserData` with `AddUserData` function that works similarly to `AddText`.
  This function currently only applies to twitter actor networks and will add, or download
  add if missing, user profile information to actors as node attributes.

# vosonSML 0.28.1

## Minor Changes
- Added `activity` network type for reddit. In the reddit activity network nodes are the
  thread posts and comments, edges represent where comments are directed in the threads.
- Added github dev version badge to README.

# vosonSML 0.28.0

## Major Changes
- Added new `activity` network type for twitter and youtube `Create` function. In this network
  nodes are the items collected such as tweets returned from a twitter search and comments
  posted to youtube videos. Edges represent the platform relationship between the tweets or
  comments.

# vosonSML 0.27.3

## Minor Changes
- Added a new twitter actor network edge type `self-loop`. This aims to facilitate the later addition
  of tweet text to the network graph for user tweets that have no ties to other users.

# vosonSML 0.27.2

## Minor Changes
- Added twitter interactive web authorization of an app as provided by `rtweet::create_token`.
  Method is used when only twitter app name and consumer keys are passed to `Authenticate.twitter`
  as parameters. e.g `Authenticate("twitter", appName = "An App", apiKey = "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  apiSecret = "xxxxxxxxxxxx")`. A browser tab will open asking the user to authorize the app to
  their twitter account to complete authentication. This is using twitters
  `Application-user authentication: OAuth 1a (access token for user context)` method.
- It is suspected that Reddit is rate-limiting some generic R UA strings. So a User-Agent string is
  now set for underlaying R Collect functions (e.g `file`) via the `HTTPUserAgent` option. It is
  temporarily set to package name and current version number for Collect e.g
  `vosonSML v.0.27.2 (R Package)`.
- Removed hex sticker (and favicons for pkgdown site).

# vosonSML 0.27.1

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug in `Create.semantic.twitter` in which a sum operation calculating edge
  weights would set `NA` values for all edges due to `NA` values present in the hashtag fields.
  This occurs when there are tweets with no hashtags in the twitter collection and is now
  checked.
- Some UTF encoding issues in `Create.semantic.twitter` were also fixed.

## Minor Changes
- Added '#' to hashtags and '@' to mentions in twitter semantic network to differentiate between
  hashtags, mentions and common terms.

# vosonSML 0.27.0

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug in `Collect.twitter` in which any additional `twitter API` parameters
  e.g `lang` or `until` were not being passed properly to `rtweet::search_tweets`. This
  resulted in the additional parameters being ignored.

## Major Changes
- Removed the `SaveCredential` and `LoadCredential` functions, as well as the `useCachedToken`
  parameter for `Authenticate.twitter`. These were simply calling the `saveRDS` and `readRDS`
  functions and not performing any additional processing. Using `saveRDS` and `readRDS` directly
  to save and load an `Authenticate` credential object to file is simpler.
- Changed the way that the `cleanText` parameter works in `Create.actor.reddit` so that it is
  more permissive. Addresses encoding issues with apostrophes and pound symbols and removes
  unicode characters not permitted by the XML 1.0 standard as used in `graphml` files. This is
  best effort and does not resolve all `reddit` text encoding issues.

## Minor Changes
- Added `Collect.twitter` summary information that includes the earliest (min) and latest (max)
  tweet `status_id` collected with timestamp. The `status_id` values can be used to frame
  subsequent collections as `since_id` or `max_id` parameter values. If the `until` date
  parameter was used the timestamp can also be used as a quick confirmation.
- Added elapsed time output to the `Collect` method.

# vosonSML 0.26.3

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed bugs in `Create.actor.reddit` that were incorrectly creating edges between
  top-level commentors and thread authors from different threads. These bugs were only
  observable in when collecting multiple reddit threads.

## Minor Changes
- Improved output for `reddit` collection. Removed the progress bar and added a table
  of results summarising the number of comments collected for each thread.
- Added to `twitter` collection output the users `twitter API` reset time.

# vosonSML 0.26.2

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug in `Create.actor.twitter` and `Create.bimodal.twitter` in which the vertices
  dataframe provided to the `graph_from_data_frame` function as a contained duplicate names
  raising an error.

## Major Changes
- Revised and updated `roxygen` documentation and examples for all package functions.
- Updated all `Authenticate`, `Collect` and `Create` S3 methods to implement function routing
  based on object class names.

## Minor Changes
- Created a `pkgdown` web site for github hosted package documentation.
- Created a new hex sticker logo.

# vosonSML 0.25.0

## Major Changes
- Replaced the `twitteR` twitter collection implementation with the `rtweet` package.
- A users `twitter` authentication token can now be cached in the `.twitter_oauth_token` file and
  used for subsequent `twitter API` requests without re-authentication. A new authentication
  token can be cached by deleting this file and using the re-using the parameter
  `useCachedToken = TRUE`.
